---
title: "A second publication in finance: SmartDCA Speriority"
layout: post
categories: Reservoir Computing
comments: true
image: /assets/article_images/2023-08-09-smartdca/cover.png
---

With my fellow partners Lucas Celotti, and Karim Valimamode, we have submited a nice paper on an investing strategy that perform better than the standard dollar cost average. The article has been submitted in the *American Economic Review*. This paper is the starting point of our start-up called [Kiwano](https://onekiwano.github.io/), as we intend on creating a service of automated investement based on this strategy. Here is the abstract:

Dollar-Cost Averaging (DCA) is a widely used technique to mitigate volatility
in long-term investments of appreciating assets. However, the inefficiency of
DCA arises from fixing the investment amount regardless of market conditions.
In this paper, we present a more efficient approach that we name SmartDCA,
which consists in adjusting asset purchases based on price levels. The simplicity
of SmartDCA allows for rigorous mathematical analysis, enabling us to establish
its superiority through the application of Cauchy-Schwartz inequality and Lehmer
means. We further extend our analysis to what we refer to as ρ-SmartDCA, where
the invested amount is raised to the power of ρ. We demonstrate that higher values
of ρ lead to enhanced performance. However, this approach may result in
unbounded investments. To address this concern, we introduce a bounded version
of SmartDCA, taking advantage of two novel mean definitions that we name
quasi-Lehmer means. The bounded SmartDCA is specifically designed to retain
its superiority to DCA. To support our claims, we provide rigorous mathematical
proofs and conduct numerical analyses across various scenarios. The performance
gain of different SmartDCA alternatives is compared against DCA using data from
S&P500 and Bitcoin. The results consistently demonstrate that all SmartDCA
variations yield higher long-term investment returns compared to DCA.

You can find the article in preprint [here](https://ManuNeuro.github.io/EmmanuelCalvet/assets/publications/2023-08-08_article_smart_dca_submitted.pdf). 

Stay tune!